---
layout: changeablepages
language: en
title: Lesson 2
lesson_number: 2
---

# Gender Suffixes

## English Explanation

Before introducing pronouns, I will explain the gender suffixes.

Gender suffixes in Balkeon are modular, meaning they can be declined like a verb.

### Human Genders:
- **a** (female)
- **o** (male)

These can be found at the end of words with an `n` in front if it is not a pronoun.

### Animal and Inanimate Genders:
By adding an **e** before the gender particle, it
transform into inanimate and animal genders:
- **eo** (inanimate or male animal)
- **ea** (female animal)

### Special Case:
- **ao**: Combination of **a** (female) and **o** (male), meaning "male and/or female".

### Neuter Gender:
- **e**: A purely neutral particle used sparingly as it is too general.

### Em

"Em" means something, someone, or a thing. It is a hyper-flexible particle that I will use to explain how suffixes work.

- **Em + a** = Eman (A woman, some woman)
- **Em + o** = Emon (A man, some man)
- **Em + ao** = Emaon (A man or woman, some man or some woman)
- **Em + e** = Emen (A thing or animal, some thing or animal)
- **Em + ea** = Emean (A female animal, some female animal)
- **Em + eo** = Emeon (A thing or male animal, some thing or male animal)

As you can see, the logic is simple: we have the root "em" and can attach any gender. The same applies to the myriad of nouns in Balkeon. The only rule is that the result of the suffixation must be meaningful and describable.

- **Emsaon** and **Emsen** change the **o** in its meaning to an **and/or** to denote either gender in plural.
