---
layout: changeablepages
language: en
title: Lección 3
lesson_number: 3
---

# Pronouns

## Personal

The pronouns are as in English, and most of them can be declined with gender suffixes. The exception is `Yu`.

### Singular

- I = Aye
- You (singular) = Yu
- He, She, It = O, A/ea, Eo

### Plural

- We (masculine, feminine) = Saye/Sayeo, Sayea
- You (plural) = Siyu
- They (masculine, feminine, neuter) = So/seo, Sa/sea

### Rules

- **Aye** is an ancient pronoun whose base is the most commonly used, despite the `e` suffix being the neutral suffix.
- **Yu** is not declinable.

## Genitives 

- In Balkeon, possession is defined using the suffix **"os"** at the end of the word.
- - For pronouns, use the wildcard **`r`** when two identical vowels come together or when there is a chain of three vowels.
  Example: **`Ayeos`**, **`oros`**, **`aoros`**

### Nouns and Examples of Usage

- For nouns, possession works in reverse, like English. The possessor comes after the possessed.

```
My book: Ayeos bukeon
A woman's book: Emanos bukeon
```

- In the second example, the possessor of the book is the woman. Hence, you first have **`Eman`** with the suffix **`os`** followed by **bukeon**.
- > Did you notice? Yes, Balkeon has no articles (`the, a`).

## Demonstratives

It couldn’t be simpler.

In Balkeon, there are only two demonstratives, and they have a logical basis.

**`Atsel`**, **`astel`**
**`That`**, **`this`**

To differentiate them, remember:
- The demonstrative for something there has the **`ts`** sound.
- The demonstrative for something here has the **`st`** sound.

Later, I'll show you their use as prefixes.

Demonstratives have no gender or number distinction.

```
This book: Astel bukeon
Those trees: Atsel arbreon
```
