---
layout: changeablepages
language: en
title: Lesson 5
lesson_number: 9
---

# Numbers

In Lesson 3 of Unit 1, I gave you a little introduction to numbers. Now, with this list, I will complete it. Remember that [here](../../../../docs/numbers) everything is prettier.

- 0 Naul
- 1 Uan
- 2 Chos
- 3 Tre
- 4 Kuar
- 5 Sink
- 6 Sis
- 7 Seti
- 8 Oich
- 9 Nuef

### Multiples of 10

- 10 Tek
- 100 Dien
- 1000 Miri
- 10000 Tekmiri
- 100000 Dienmiri
- 1000000 Miliar

And that's it.

To construct a number like 9872 and say it, you need to do the following:

1. Invert it: Two Seventy Eight Hundred Nine Thousand
2. Translate: Chos setitek oichdien nuefmiri

Unlike Spanish, you always define which number it is. Here's what I mean:

- 11 = Uan uantek
- 12 = Chos uantek
- Etc.

1987 is:
- Seti oichtek nuefdien uanmiri

And that's all, once again.

# Basic Calculations

Something new, although it will only be the basics. Refer to this table from [here](../../../../docs/numbers). 

## Addition

To add, use **`ara`** (and)

- **Sis ara uan sir seti**
  - Six and one make seven

## Subtraction

To subtract, use **`nel`** (without)
> yes, small glimpses of what's to come

- **Tek nel nuef sir uan**
  - Ten minus nine equals one

## Multiplication

To multiply, use **`up`** (collective affix) or **`ult`** (multiplicative affix)

- **Chos treulteon sir sis**
  - Twice three equals six

- **Tre animalchosupureon agdir sis**
  - Three groups of two animals make six
  
- **Animalchosupureonos treulteon sir sis**
  - Three times a group of two animals is six

## Division

To divide, use the suffix **`ake`** (division, fraction)

- **Bolir buyirian yuos yereonos chos kuarake**
  - I want to buy two quarters of your house

- **Ken agdir oich chosuantekake?**
  - What is eight divided by twelve?
  - What is eight twelfths?

## Decimals

### Usage of the Comma

To say "comma" in Balkeon, use the prepositional root **`Idok`**. The zero is not mentioned with decimals, and the order of the numbers on the other side of the comma is reversed.

### Examples:

**0.66**
- **Idok sistek sis**
  - Zero period sixty-six.

**283.137**
- **Tre oichtek chosdien idok uandien tretek seti**
  - Two eighty-three hundred period one hundred thirty-seven.

> Indeed, in Balkeon, the comma is used for decimals instead of the period.
